scripts/camera_calibration/readme.md, before:

### **Objective**

Determine the **Camera pose in Base frame** (Camera Extrinsics), to compute the locations of object in base frame based on the camera frames.

### Calibration **Procedure**

1. Attach an AprilTag to Kinova Arm’s End Effector
2. Correct the distortion of camera → Not needed for Intel RealSense D435
    
    https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/dc/dbb/tutorial_py_calibration.html
    
    “For Intel RealSense D435 camera, its two infrared streams have no distortion. Therefore, this specific function doesn't not necessarily need to be used.”
    
3. Move the arm to the position where AprilTag can be seen by the camera
4. Detect the AprilTag pose within the captured frames from camera
5. Average out the **AprilTag pose in Camera frame**
6. Use forward kinematics to compute the **End Effector pose in Base frame**
7. Compute the **Camera pose in Base frame** using “AprilTag pose in Camera frame” and “End Effector pose in Base frame”, assuming AprilTag pose = End Effector pose

$$
\text{Assume: } X^A = X^E \\
X^A = X^C\ ^CX^A \\
\text{ Then, } X^C = X^E (^CX^A)^{-1}
$$

### **Intel RealSense D435i camera Specification**

- Ideal range: 0.3 m to 3 m
- Depth Field of View (FOV): 87° × 58°
- Depth output resolution: Up to 1280 × 720
- Depth frame rate: Up to 90 fps
- Depth technology: Stereoscopic
- Minimum depth distance (Min‑Z) at max resolution: ~28 cm
- Depth Accuracy: <2% at 2 m
- RGB sensor FOV (H × V): 69° × 42°
- RGB sensor resolution: 2 MP
- RGB frame resolution: 1920 × 1080
- RGB frame rate: 30 fps

Commit message:

Multi pose calibration completed, Added force sensing scripts

scripts/camera_calibration/readme.md, after:


## **Camera Calibration Objective**

Determine the **Camera pose in Base frame** (Camera Extrinsics), to compute the locations of object in base frame based on the camera frames.


## Calibration **Procedure**

1. Attach an AprilTag to Kinova Arm’s End Effector
2. Correct the distortion of camera → Not needed for Intel RealSense D435
    
    https://docs.opencv.org/4.x/dc/dbb/tutorial_py_calibration.html
    
    “For Intel RealSense D435 camera, its two infrared streams have no distortion. Therefore, this specific function doesn't not necessarily need to be used.”
    
**Below steps can be performed using: camer_calibration_single_pose.py or camera_calibration_multi_pose.py**
**Multi Pose script loops through these steps for a number of different poses and takes average of them**

3. Move the arm to the position where AprilTag can be seen by the camera
4. Detect the AprilTag pose within the captured frames from camera
5. Average out the **AprilTag pose in Camera frame**
6. Use forward kinematics to compute the **End Effector pose in Base frame**
7. Compute the **Camera pose in Base frame** using “AprilTag pose in Camera frame” and “End Effector pose in Base frame”, assuming AprilTag pose = End Effector pose

$$
\text{Assume: } X^A = X^E \\
X^A = X^C\ ^CX^A \\
\text{ Then, } X^C = X^E (^CX^A)^{-1}
$$

9. Save the determined extrinsics to .npy file for reuse
8. Validate the determined extrinsics are reasonable by placing an apriltag at the known location and running **camera_detect_apriltag.py** script


## **Intel RealSense D435i camera Specification**

- Ideal range: 0.3 m to 3 m
- Depth Field of View (FOV): 87° × 58°
- Depth output resolution: Up to 1280 × 720
- Depth frame rate: Up to 90 fps
- Depth technology: Stereoscopic
- Minimum depth distance (Min‑Z) at max resolution: ~28 cm
- Depth Accuracy: <2% at 2 m
- RGB sensor FOV (H × V): 69° × 42°
- RGB sensor resolution: 2 MP
- RGB frame resolution: 1920 × 1080
- RGB frame rate: 30 fps
